THE VICTIM
BUSINESSMAN Will Riley, 50, lives in
Islington, north London, with his wife
and daughter
I WAS getting ready to go to the
gym when I walked into my hall
and stopped dead. There, standing
on the stairs, was a man about the same
age as me, dressed in a scruffy leather
jacket.
"What are you doing here?" I asked in
shock. He said he was a neighbour who'd
got lost. But it was obvious who he was.
I was suddenly scared. I thought, "If he's
got a knife, he could kill me." We kind
offought with each other. A passer-by
saw us and phoned the police. Somehow
I managed to hold him until the police
arrived. It was only after they arrested him
and took him away that a policeman asked
if I was OK. I put my hand to my head
and felt blood. I hadn't realized what he'd
done to me. It's incredible, but I just didn't
register that he'd hit me really hard. He'd
smashed a flower pot on my head, and
all the bits were on the ground. I went to
hospital and needed stitches.
After the burglary, my whole life changed.
I've always lived in big cities, and I've
never been afraid ofurban crime, but
suddenly I became too frightened to open
my front door. All I could think was "What
daughter had been at home? Would
he have attacked her?"
PETER WOOLF, a life-long
criminal, broke into Will Riley's
home one March evening. Will
found Peter standing in his hall,
his pockets stuffed with money
and jewellery.
Peter was jailed for three years
for the burglary. So it's hard to
think of them becoming friends.
Here, Will and Peter describe
their first encounter, and why
meeting each other again
was the best thing for both
of them
By VICTORIA KENNEDY
I was asked to meet the burglar in prison.
I wasn't sure what the purpose was, but
I went anyway. I was curious.
We sat in the prison library, and he
explained how he'd come from a
dysfunctional family, was a heroin
addict and spent his life in and out of
jail. He spoke without any emotion. But
it was when he suddenly said "Last time
we met …" that I exploded.
I screamed at him, Why me?
Why did you ruin my life?"
"We didn't meet in a bar, you little …!
You broke into my house!" I was so
angry. I screamed at him, "Why me?
Why did you do this to me? Why did
you ruin my life??
I could see from his face that I had
got through to him. He looked stunned.
It was then I realized he was just an
ordinary guy. And I wanted to help
him
When I got home, I felt relieved. All my
fears disappeared. Because I could see
Peter was just a normal human being,
he became less frightening.
When he was finally released, we stayed
in touch. I've met him dozens of times
since and the change in him is amazing.
It's hard to believe he's the same person
who broke into my home. He's totally
different.
I'm delighted that I've done something
to help Peter get his life back.
THE ROBBER
PETER WOOLF, 50, is married to
Louise, and works as a counsellor
to rehabilitate criminals
IT WAS easy to break into
Will's house. Just one push and
the lock broke. I quickly took
some gold jewellery and some money
from upstairs. I was feeling lucky.
But when I was coming downstairs and
I bumped into Will in the hall, I suddenly
felt frightened. I thought, "He's a big guy.
wanted to, he could hurt me."
I tried to escape. I didn't want to hit
him, but I did. I'm not a violent guy,
but I just did what I had to do. There
was a flower pot, and I smashed it on
his head.
After I was arrested, all I felt was a big
sense ofrelief. I was going back to a
place I knew well. I'd been in and out of
prison for 18 years, for theft, burglary,
and fraud.
I started using drugs when I was 10
and became an addict at 14. I'd hit rock
bottom. I stole because it was the only
thing I knew how to do. I knew it would
only lead me back to prison.
I was given a three-year sentence. It was
while I was in jail someone mentioned
Restorative Justice. I couldn't see the
point, but I agreed to do it because I
was bored.
It wasn't until I started walking down
the corridor towards the library that I
got scared.
When I got there I sat down and just
looked at the floor. I said the same
rubbish I always used to say to the police.
But Will was furious, and I was shocked.
I thought, "My God, I did all this.
felt angry with myself, and
ashamed. I was determined
to make things better.
I suddenly realized that I was responsible
for this man's pain. He wasn't just a
faceless nobody that I'd stolen from. I felt
angry with myself, and ashamed. I was
determined to make things better.
I did a course ofrehab to get off drugs.
I also started a course to be a counsellor.
It was at the counselling class that I met
Louise. I was over the moon. And my life
changed completely
I was released early after 18 months,
and Louise and I got married. Life hasn't
been easy, but I've worked hard to get
things together.
I'm now helping others. I'm clean of
drugs and haven't committed another
crime. I feel proud of myself. These days,
I consider myselflucky that I broke into
Will's house that day. If I hadn't - and if
we didn't become friends - I don't know
what I would have done. I guess I'd be
dead by now.
When she was a little girl … grandmother
asked her opened the cupboard … dark
green cardigan started screaming
her grandmother managed to now it's
difficult to … tries to find … a year ago
a colleague's jacket has decided to
embarrassed
Gavin
His dad used to … he didn't like watching
him…when seven started feeling his
dad had to stop … problem got worse
supermarkets asked his wife never to
daren't go to restaurants … oyster only
hamburger bars … started to see hasn't
succeeded in
Melissa
Since she was five trying to blow up …
popped in her face . can remember
her friends enjoy … think it's fun to … last
to
time … a panic attack … they refused to
difficulty in worst thing parties
can't imagine ever even on TV
starts to shake
I have a really unusual phobia. It began when I was
a little girl. I was staying with my grandmother and
she asked me to go upstairs and get her cardigan. I
opened the cupboard and saw this big, dark green
cardigan with huge, black buttons hanging there - I
was terrified. I started screaming. My grandmother
rushed upstairs and finally managed to calm me
down but from then on it was a problem, it was the
buttons - all buttons made me feel uncomfortable.
It's difficult for me to buy clothes - I try to find
skirts and trousers with just belts and zips, but
it's not easy. About a year ago a button came off a
colleague's jacket at work and I had a panic attack.
I've decided to see a psychotherapist, but I'm
embarrassed to say'l'm scared of buttons. ' It sounds
silly.
I'm not sure what first started my phobia, but my
dad used to go fishing and afterwards I didn't like
watching him cleaning the fish in the kitchen sink.
Then when I was about seven I started feeling afraid
when I saw him coming home with the fish. He had
to stop catching it. As I grew up the problem got
worse and worse. I couldn't go into supermarkets
- the sight of fish made me feel sick. When I started
going out with my wife I had to ask her never to eat
fish. I daren't go to restaurants because once I saw
someone eating an oyster and I had a panic attack.
I can only eat in hamburger bars now. It makes life
very difficult for my whole family. I've started to see
a psychologist but I haven't succeeded in conquering
my phobia yet.
3 Melissa
I'm 13 years old and I've been terrified of balloons
since I was five. I was trying to blow one up and
it popped in my face. I can remember feeling the
rubber on my skin - ugh it was awful. My friends
don't understand, they enjoy chasing me around
with blown up balloons because they think it's
pol
fun to see me cry. Last time, we were in the school
playground, and I had a panic attack. At first they
refused to believe me and they didn't get the teacher
but then they saw how bad it was - I was having
difficulty breathing and they got frightened. The
worst thing is that I can't go to parties, if I do I have
to ask them not to have balloons. I can't imagine
ever blowing one up. I can't even look at them on
TV, I start to shake. I want to see somebody about it.
My teacher says I have to.
Human beings are programmed to be afraid of
things that can hurt them. Show a baby a picture of
a snake or a big, poisonous spider and the baby will
show fear. It's in our DNA. We're all afraid of some
things and that's good. But a phobia causes absolute
terror, with physical symptoms such as a racing
heart, sickness and panic attacks. Phobias are usually
the result of a bad experience, for example a car
crash can cause a fear of driving, but it's often just
fear of ordinary things like balloons or a particular
food. Some people are more likely to get phobias
than others, it's in their genes. Myjob is to train
people to conquer their phobia. First we just talk
about it, and help the patient relax. Then we might
show just a picture or cartoon of their phobia. After
that we sometimes show a film and finally we ask
them to touch the object. In this way phobias can
normally be treated in just three or four sessions.
A bank robber in
Marseille, France, held
up a sign which said
Give me all the money.
The cashier handed
over the money, and
the bank robber fled,
leaving the note behind.
Unfortunately, he had
written the note on the
back of an envelope. On
the other side was his
address. He was arrested
later the same day.
Car thief Lee Hoskins
took pictures of himself
stealing a Vauxhall
Astra with a camera
he found in the glove
department. Lee and
his girlfriend took turns
posing before crashing
the car and fleeing
the scene, leaving the
camera on the back seat
of the car. 'It's amazing
just how stupid some
criminals can be, said a
spokesman for Somerset
police.
A Finnish bank manager
stopped a robbery by
persuading the three
criminals to take out a
loan instead. The robbers
burst into the bank near
Helsinki, and demanded
€50,000. The manager
put the money on the
table, but suggested that
a loan would be more
sensible. He offered
them a €10 cash advance
and told them to return
in ten minutes to sign the
loan papers. Police were
waiting for them.